	I’m gonna use those two, so I don’t need to use these.  This one down here out of the way.  And they are pretty good so they pick up pretty well so do don’t have to worry about talking directly into them.  Okay, so like I said, this is all going to have to do with mothers, children, pregnant women.  It’s got to do with medical services and that sort of thing, just to kind of give you an idea of where we’re going.  

	So my first question is, what kind of medical services do you and your family use in this community and do those services meet your needs.  Anyone who would like to begin?  You start. 

	____ [Cell phone].

	Any kind of medical services that you access, so whether that’s going to the doctor or maybe coming here to the health center.  What are the kind of things that you usually use?

	I know, I use the WIC department upstairs.  And then I use the doctor’s office ____.

	Okay, and how would you say those services meet your needs.

	They really do.

	They do, okay.  Anybody else?

	I use Medicaid.

	Okay.

	But I have to go to (X location) for my doctor because there’s no orthopedics that will take—

	Okay, so nothing in the community that’s meeting your needs.  You have to go to (X location).

	I have to go to (X location), yeah.

	To get your needs met.  Okay.

	The orthopedic surgery.

	Okay, anyone else?

	[child talking over respondent].

	Okay.  Somebody else that would like to say anything?

	I have WIC and Medicaid and I use the doctor’s office here.

	And you feel like that’s meeting your needs?  

	I have WIC and Medicaid and a whole bunch of kids with it, but I don’t feel like that the medical coverage on the Medicaid really meets my needs and I’m really proud of WIC because they are really non invasive, but they meet a lot of our needs being non invasive into our lives and non controlling.  And I like that about WIC so I will continue to look forward to WIC, but when it comes to medical health care, I’m looking towards natural medicines and chiropractic care and we don’t get our coverage.

	You cant hardly find a dentist, I mean, these are like main things that like Medicaid,  I mean, you have to fight a great big battle in order to get your children’s teeth take care of.  Not to mention yourself as an adult, and adults suffer lots of dental problems and the dental problems have a lot to do with our actual physical health.

	You know, so if we’re not taking care of our teeth and out mouth and this kind of stuff then some main issues are being missed, so I have a real problem with some issues with Medicaid.

	Medicaid is not paying as, it doesn’t pay for as much as it used too.  Like you go to the hospital.  I had $600 bill and I had to pay half of it.

	Were you at a doctor who really doesn’t want to deal with you because you are on Medicaid.

	Yeah, they’ve turned me down here because I have Medicaid. 

	Yeah, it’s like you’re a second kind of person, you’re not even really, you don’t have a stature as any other person that has regular Blue Cross Blue Shield or something.  They will take those people way over you or sit there and make you wait and you know, at the waiting area and that, to me, it not right.  

	So, your physical care is just as important as anyone else’s, regardless of what or the way you pay.  So there’s lots of issues that need taken care of when it comes to that.

	All right, are you guys talking as far as Medicaid for adults or for your children?

	Overall, I’m talking overall.  I’ve had a lot of problems with getting dental care for my children and things like that.  Three of my, I have eight children.  And ranging from the age of 18 on to 17 months so I have this huge span of kids.  Three of those kids I established them having their own dentist like way back when, so they were accepted a long time ago with this dentist office I have in (X location).

	And then I tried to get these kids, my little ones in.  And guess what, there is no place for them.  I called (X location), all over (X location)and here we are running to (X location) and stuff for you know, for dental care because they all cant get into the same, it’s crazy.  

	You know, you spend a whole day and our days may not seem that, you know, they’re important, but it’s a cost.  Having to spend the day running around fighting for care, it’s a cost.  

	Okay, thank you very much for sharing.  Let’s move on to you’re the next question.  Do you or your children ever have occasion to use the county health department for any services and we already talked about that a little bit.  Anybody else have anything to mention about the county health department services?

	I think it’s a good thing that they provide shots and things for underprivileged children without no cost.  So they can go to school and stuff.

	Um-hum.  And the health department is awesome for like support with breast feeding and things like that.  I cheer them on.  I’m an advocate for that.

	Anything else sticks out?  All right, are school nurses available within your school, if your child is attending school?

	Yes. 

	They are available, okay.

	I feel they should have a nursing degree though.  Not just a basic, they don’t have any skills like if they really got hurt, all they can do is put ice on it.  You know, they cant evaluate if they have a concussion or if they have a broken bone or you know what I’m saying, they’re not fully qualified to the extent that I would like them to be.

	Right, right.

	Part of that is the school rules holds them back.

	And to the best of your knowledge, what is it that a school nurse does, probably for kids in school?  Does anybody have an idea?

	Temperature, go home. 

	Temperature, okay.  All right.  Um, and is there anyone who doesn’t have a school nurse that are in the school for their kids that they have any idea how the services would be handled?

	Okay, all right.  What barriers, if any, have you encountered, in obtaining needed medical services in your community?  So we talked about that a little bit, but we’d kind of like to sort of hear the range of things, the barriers that you might come across while trying to obtain medical services.  

	If there are any.  Okay, so the lack of actually having the services in the town.  

	_____.

	Really.  Right.

	And maybe better said is maybe like specific health needs that Medicaid pays for that the physician is actually here in town that will actually accept that pay.  Maybe that’s a little bit better.

	Okay, so a couple of different issues there about whether or not they are accepting new patients or accepting patients at all and if they’ll take the Medicaid or if they are taking that specialist kind of—

	I don’t feel like the doctor should have the right to deny you because you are a low income person.  

	Okay.

	I mean, yes, you went to school and you deserved to get paid just like everybody else, but you provide a service for people.

	That’s actually really not, the doctor, it goes in front of somebody else, actually before it goes to the doctor, so sometimes the doctors are not even the ones who see and know what’s going on as far as pay goes.  Often times it’s they have a set group who like their payroll or whatever, who has already got it in the system what they can and cant do.

	So, often times it’s not even the doctor.  

	The receptionist.

	I work at a hospital here in (X location) and I work in the admitting office and I work with some of the insurances and registering patients and I feel like it’s harder for people around here if you don’t have insurance and Medicaid gives you a certain type of coverage and that might be why you guys are seeing, being turned away.

	Because, Medicaid will send you are approved for Medicaid, but then they don’t tell you that you are only approved for certain types of services and that’s might be why you are, you know, they way that we don’t take Medicaid here.  ‘Cause I work, so I don’t qualify.  My kids have Medicaid, but I don’t qualify for insurance so I don’t have any, so if I get sick, I just don’t go to the doctor.  

	But I do have family planning Medicaid and that only covers birth control and medical visits, you know, it has to be about the women’s body, but like if you get sick, really sick, you wont get any coverage.  

	And see that right there, that’s mean to me because the woman obviously, is gonna have a whole, a lot more things that they need cared for so then you have this slant on things that, you know, just because you are working, that’s when you should be lifted up and pushed up, at least they should have like a year or two span that says, hey, if you’re working, we’re going to keep you on and give you these benefits so that you can make it to the point that you can support yourself and get that insurance that you really do need and not cut you out.

	Because, you ___cutting you out then it becomes a disability and then you cant work to the point where you can become self sustaining and actually get off of the system.  I’m like right there in the middle is where I’m at.  So it’s very, very difficult.  [Child talking loudly over respondents.]

	Let’s get the job down so that we can all be self sufficient instead of being held down or when you are getting these benefits and then when you go to work and have part of that benefit taken away and then just slices you back down again.

[Child talking loudly over respondents.]

	I really think that’s like the biggest problem with Medicaid and the government and consistency because they will give assistance to the people who aren’t, who don’t want to work.

	You cant draw over $250 a month or you don’t qualify for Medicaid for an adult.  And I don’t think that’s, who can live off of $250?

[Child talking loudly over respondents.]

	____ you can have like four kids and they’ll send you $200 a month, but the minute that you go and get a job to try to better yourself, they take it away.  Or like with food stamps, the minute you go and get a job to try and help your family, they take it away.  But when you don’t do anything at all, they are willing to give you all the services in the world.  

[Child talking loudly over respondents.]

	I second that.

	Okay.

	And even with a job it’s hard to get insurance ___.

	I know.  I’ve been at my job 19 years and I don’t have hospital care.  

	And if you get a bad section in your mouth and you cant think right, then are you going to be able to go to work?  No, because then it’s just this vicious cycle.  Somehow that’s where we got to break the cycle of causing us to fail over and over again.  We want something that’s going to work to cause everybody to be successful so that we don’t have to be dependent on the system all the time.  

	You know, people don’t want that anymore.  They really do what to work and they really want to do what’s best.  But when they’re looking at it, like she’s going to work, is it better for her to go to work or is it better for her to stay on assistance.  You know, these things are reality.  

	I know people without Medicaid, the only place they are allowed to be seen is ER.  Urgent care will even turn them down and I don’t think that’s right.

	Okay.  Thank you for sharing on that.  And any other barriers, that’s kind of where we are.  Any other barriers that you’ve encountered obtaining needed medical services.  I don’t know if anyone is transportation, I don’t know if that’s a possible barrier. 

	Okay, and let’s see, and then we’ve talked about, sort of, the financial concerns.  Anything else that sticks out?

	Also whether or not a provider is even available.  

	I just want to make sure we cover everything.

	Just the gas money to, ‘cause I have to go to ____.  He gets my doctor in (X location) and then I have to drive to (X location), I don’t know how many times, so the gas money and transportation. 

	Very good, all right, let’s move on.  Do you or any members of your family have any health problems that are particularly pressing at this time and if so, can you tell us a little bit about what that problems are, and you don’t have to be to specific, but just tell us about what your needs are and what’s that’s like at this time. 

[Child talking loudly over respondents.]

	I might have to have a whole knee replacement.

	Oh really?

	I’ve already had one surgery on it.  I finally found a doctor in (X location) that’s got me x-rays last month, MRI this month and then he’s gonna get me set up with the doctor in (X location) because no other orthopedic doctors will take Medicaid.  

[Child talking loudly over respondents.]

	I came from down in (X location) and down in (X location), they actually pay for ou to go and see the chiropractor and get chiropractic care, at least certain amount of times in a month.  Okay, and depending if you are an adult or a teenager.  Whatever.  The teenagers, they can actually see a chiropractor up to five times a month, which is wonderful.  It’s really awesome.  I think, if I remember right, in (X location), they allow two or three times for an adult in a month to see a chiropractor and with that, I was able to take care of not having to see a doctor for like two years because I would see a chiropractor once a month.  

	My requirement was basically once a month and I stayed healthy all the time.  Well, I came up here and we don’t have, again, the dental problem, non chiropractic care, that kind of thing, so I’ve seen the doctor a lot on Medicaid up here.  And then, aside from that, because I get a lot of prescriptions for pain medication, which to me is trash because that’s unhealthy.  

	So I toss them in the trash or I don’t get them at all and I go hunt me a chiropractor, which I have to dig out money for only God knows where sometimes to go to the chiropractor, so for me, the lack of natural health care or even, you know what, we’re all mom’s in here.  You know, or most of us.  

	Sorry about that, but you know what, sometimes just having very minimal outside care that we are mothers, that we need to be cared for, whether it be foot washing from somebody, something very minimal.  Sometimes just to know that we’re cared for.  You know?  We don’t get the time for that.  

	And so, a massage is really great.  These are really ways of taking care of our health and they are never, ever addressed.  So I see that as a lack.  

	Okay.  

	I went to the doctor’s office one day because my son was showing signs of like he was having difficulties breathing.  He was starting to show signs of, I have something called Reynods syndrome and so I wanted to figure out if he was starting to get some of the stuff that I have.  

	And I made a doctors appointment, and of course, I couldn’t get in there for like a month, well, so I noticed that one day, he started bleeding from the ear.  So I freaked out and of course, I took him to the emergency room.  And they said it was going to still be like a four hour wait or something like that.  And I’m like, he’s bleeding from the ear.  So at least the nurse cared.  She rushed him up to go see the doctor.

	And I don’t know if it’s because like I had Medicaid or anything, but it just seemed like the doctor did not want me in there.  He’s just, oh, he’s just got an ear infection, he’s fine.  Just leave it.  And I asked him about the Reynods and he’s like, oh you don’t get that till like your late 20’s and this and that.  

	I don’t know if I look ate 20’s, but I’ve had this thing for years, since I turned into a teenager and he just was giving me excuse after excuse just to get me out of there.  

	I will comment on the Medicaid at ER.  The doctors and the nurses in the ER do not look at your insurance, so they do not know what you are covered by.  Unless you are a regular patient who is in there like every week, cause we do have those.  We have patients there every week, or sometimes every day.  

	Sometimes three or four times a night, I was there.

	That’s exactly true.  They do not look at your insurance.  And the Medicaid cant turn you away, I’m sorry, the physicians cant turn you away based on what your insurance is at the ER.

	They turned her away three times before her gallbladder was getting ready to explode.  

	September of ’08, I had to go back three—

	Did they treat her?

	No, the first two times they didn’t.  They didn’t give me nothing.  The third time I said, something’s got to be done.  I don’t have insurance, this is the only place I can come.  This is my third day I haven’t slept in three days.  They finally did an ultrasound and took my gallbladder out and took me into surgery that day.

	The same day.

	Only because I didn’t have Medicaid they had to do it right then and there.  So—

	Well, what I’m those three days, did you go back there and see a physician?  That’s what I’m saying.

	The same one.

	Okay, that’s what I’m saying.  I’m saying, they cant tell you up front, well you have no insurance, you have no Medicaid.  They cant tell you to leave.  They will treat you to the best of their knowledge. 

	They told me a round about price it would cost.

	Yeah, the ER physician has to go through certain protocols before they can do.  They cant do all those procedures in the ER.

	I guess he did that and then called it an emergency and they did it, they went ahead and took my gallbladder out.  Had over 100 gallstones in it.  And I couldn’t sleep, nothing to eat for three days.  I had to go back and back to the ER and if anybody knows how the ER is.  I hate that place.

	Um-hum, I work there.  

	But if you seriously need something done with the ER, I think you have to repeatedly go back if they do do something.

	Well, I didn’t know this, but my daughter was on a 4 wheeler and had an accident, so I thought she was going to be okay and then got like she wanted to go to sleep, so I thought we’d go to the ER, okay.  She just had little abrasions, not deep, just scratches from the brush.

	We waited and waited probably about, I’m not exaggerating, probably about three hours.  And they knew the condition, she was three years old, but she was riding with her cousin who was a teenager.  And you know, they didn’t seem to concerned.  They left us in a room.

	I went up to the desk.  I said, we’re leaving.  She’s awake.  She’s getting in all your drawers and pulling your band aids out so I assume she’s okay.  And they said, fine.  Within one hour of getting home I had a welfare and a cop at my door.  And I said, well, if they would have told me this then, I would have waited at the ER, of course I would have waited.  

	Why didn’t they tell me this?  I didn’t know there was a law that, I told them I was leaving.  So I went back and waited another three hours, and they put her in a CAT scan, sent that to (X location).  Is that how they do that, through (X location).  	I don’t know, and she was fine.  She was fine.  They thought this bone was broken.  If it was broken it would kind of mess you up.

	But she was fine, but if they were so concerned, why did they wait three to four hours and then I say bye and then send the welfare and the cop to my house without telling me.  

	I had another friend that did that.  Left the hospital and they sent cop and welfare there.

	Why didn’t they tell me?  I don’t like welfare involved in my life.  I brought her there to get treated.  If it was so serious why didn’t they come?

	Until you don’t leave, you know.

	Right, and I was going to say, is that the policy, did they tell you that was the policy?

	No, I would have stayed.  I don’t want cops and welfare at my home.

	Sure, sure.

	And you know that issue that she’s brining up.

	They did not tell me.  Did you know that, ____?

	It’s a huge issue that like, you know what, this welfare, this is the only thing I think that part of the time that people don’t go for healthcare is because of this tie in with brining social services into the home to tell people how to, that they need to live their lives.  I don’t happen to agree with that at all.  

	And having health insurance is one thing and calling it Medicaid, that’s one thing, but then to have an invitation, these people from social service think that that’s a free invitation that they can come into your home and tell you how are you going to treat, or take care of your children or your family.  That’s wrong.

	With the police officer, they made me take her right back, which I did.  

	Especially when one of the kids ___.

	But nothing was wrong with her, she was fine, but I had to follow up with the welfare.  She came back to my home.  I said, the accident did not happen in my home.  It happened out here.  I will discuss it.  And she said, well, you signed a letter saying she will never ride a 4 wheeler because she’s under 16.  I said, no, her and her dad love the 4 wheeler, that’s their thing they do together.  

	She said, well, no one under 18 can ride with her.  I said, I will sign that one.  You know, trying to—

	Force you into—

	I mean, don’t you let your kids ride, you know adults ride little ATV’s around everyone does that.  I signed it because her dad rides her around, that’s her favorite thing but the welfare got involved, after I took her, they didn’t have to tell me to take her.  I took her, but when they didn’t see her after three to four hours yes, we’re leaving.  She’s pulling your drawers out, getting your band aids everywhere.

	I went up there and told them.  They didn’t care.  Bye.  But they did care enough to call the welfare and cops.  And that was wrong.  They should have posted that or told me.  I want to find the lady that did this and I wanted to tell her how I felt, but I don’t know who did it, but I think they should tell you then, no, once you bring your child in, you have to leave her here till she’s treated.  

	Why didn’t they say that?  I would have stayed.  I would have stayed.

	I had to speak to a worker when ____ broke his arm, even when the doctor strictly told me, well, yes, that’s consistent with what you told me happened.  How his arm broke, but after we were done, I still had to speak to a social worker because he was like three years old.   

	And I didn’t feel like that as right because the doctor even old me that that was consistent with the story of what happened.  

	And if it wasn’t that we weren’t on Medicaid, I don’t think they would do that to people.

	I don’t know, they just told me I left and I shouldn’t have left.  But I waited there three to four hours.  I mean, if they thought it was such an emergency, why didn’t they put her on the top of the list?  She was three at the time.  Put her up here.  She had a big bruise here.  Instead of, you know, little charts with the body and they mark where you are hurt at, they just took pictures of her because she had scratches from head to toe.

	Wouldn’t you, if you see a three year old with scratches from head to toe, wouldn’t you want to go treat her immediately.  Four hours later, no.  I said, we are just going to go home and I’ll just doctor her myself.  They’re not deep, no stitches were required, but this spot did kind of have me worried, but they didn’t seem to concerned, but they were whenever I left, they called.  

	I told them, so why did they not tell me.  So I didn’t like that.  I was really upset about that and then welfare had to come back to my home to follow up.

	Yeah, follow up.

	Yeah, follow up.  And she said, yeah, she understood too, but then she wanted me to sign a paper, no one rides under 18 and I said no.  And she said, well, let’s do under 18, no one under 18 can ride her.  I said, I’ll do that, I guess.  Cause, her father rides her around.  So.

	That you very much for sharing that.  I appreciate that.

	They should post that.

	Anybody else, anything else they would like to share?  We were just talking about if there’s any health problems that your family or you are experiencing right now.

	Vision too.  You know, I think, yeah, that’s another big issue.

	And is that covered or do you get any coverage related?

	You get to see the optometrist one time a year.  

	You only get one pair of glasses every two years.

	One pair every two years.  

	And if you have kids, they get broke.  

	Yeah, these here, I just had to take these last week to the [crosstalk].  I’m like, hey man, I’m not going to be able to see here to drive or anything else.

	But it’s not just Medicare.  My husband works, I work at (X company) which is a factory, a cabinet shop.  He has no insurance, you know, well, they give him 10 percent of his monthly income and so he get’s it on the last full Wednesday of the month, he gets a 10 percent check of what he makes through the month and that’s for him to go out and buy insurance.  You cannot buy insurance like that.  

	And he just spends his money.  He’s young.  He’s not sick.  But if something ever happened, he’s in trouble.  Yeah, and they charge so much for what, a band aid, or whatever, they change a lot of money if you to through them and look at see what they charge, it’s ridiculous. 

	I feel that they should do something for the people that have major eye issues like glaucoma, early stages, because my boyfriend has early stages of glaucoma and they told him if he does not go to the doctor like he’s supposed to, he could wake up and it’d just be gone, but he cant afford to see anyone without any insurance.  

	And Medicaid doesn’t cover glaucoma testing and stuff like that, so what is he supposed to do.  You know what I mean?  I mean, there is issues like that out there too.

	Okay, I’m going to go ahead and move onto the next question.  Who is the primary resource person that you turn too when you or your family needs medical assistance?  Who do you go to first?

	I go to my kids, their doctor.

	You take them to the doctor, okay.

	My son’s dad works at (X location) and they have a, their own clinic, so usually they go there first, instead of the ER.

	Okay.

	But I don’t have that, so I go to my doctor or ER if I have to.  

	My daughter has a pediatrician and I have a clinic and I like I said, I had to find a doctor out of town to take me, so.

	Right

	And it’s kind of sad because I do go to the ER quite a bit because I have a spend down and I get SSI disability.  I have a pretty high spend down.  And it’s pretty sad that you have to go to the ER to get your spend down met so you can go to your regular doctor to get your diabetic medicine and all that stuff.

	Why do you have a spend down on a little bitty check?  I don’t understand it.  You know, the spend down thing, whoever invented it, they need to change that.  

	What’s a spend down?

	It’s where you have to pay to keep your Medicaid card activity.

	And it’s usually a lot.

	Yeah.

	My neighbors pay over $200 and that’s like, um-hum, a little bit more you could carry a better insurance.

	I just go to the ER ___ because I have to have my diabetes supplies every three months because they give me three months and different medicines I have to have and I have to get my spend down met.  And it’s, I know it’s not a good thing to do, to go to the ER to get your spend down met, but a lot of people do it.  

	And I hate, what do you do?

	I have Medicaid right now because I’m pregnant.  After that, I’m screwed again.

	If you need your teeth fixed.  Do it now.

	Yeah.  

	They wont do anything while you’re pregnant.  All they’ll do is examine you and say, after you are pregnant—

	No, I checked everywhere I could, if you guys know a doctor, let me know, but everywhere I went too, they said, if I was over 18 with Medicaid they wouldn’t do nothing.

	You will have Medicaid for, you will still have it like three months after [crosstalk].

	I want to make sure everybody gets the information, if somebody knows something to share with each other, we definitely want to do it.  

	Do you know that what you are doing now is probably one of the most valuable tools that you could actually offer to us women about once or twice a month because how that we get major information is through each other.  

	And the only way that we know to get that major information exchanged is through a group like this and this doesn’t happen all the time.  As a matter fact, this is the first time I’ve ever been in one of these, so I’m like, this is really major.  I’m like, I got to be here.  I don’t know about everything, but I got to be here.  This is major, you know. 

[Crosstalk]

	Okay, anybody else with primary persons, anything that we didn’t mention?  We mentioned going to pediatricians, your family doctor, maybe outside the community, anything else?  

	I go to my chiropractor and I ____ myself because everything is gone through, you know, if I think it’s one thing, if it acts like the flu or whatever, Im’ just using this as a for instance, and it could be something else, you know like some stomach bug or something that’s not the flu, well, I’m on the computer and I’m looking everything up and I’m cross referencing everything. 

	And then when it gets to the point that I cannot find, if I cannot find the answer myself and I call the chiropractor and I say, I got a list, dah, dah, dah, dah.  Because I believe in natural health medicines, and so if my herbs don’t heal it or cure it or something, or don’t kill me first, then like I really hammer it down and then at the very end, we do have a family doctor who that I’ll call sometimes and say, I cant find the answer.  Here’s everything going on.  

	And then he gives me, well, here’s what’s going on in the community at this and such and such a time.  Kind of gives me an overview to help me figure out what’s going on.  But I don’t depend on doctors.  I depend on myself and try to figure out what’s going on.

	That’s how they figured out I had Reynods.  The doctors never told me.  My mom finally found it.  And then whenever she went to the doctor they are like, I think I’ve heard of that and then when they looked it up they are like, oh yeah, that’s what you’ve got.

	Okay, does anybody else do research at home by themselves, all the time before you go to a doctor?

	I did when I had the computer, I did.  I used too.  When I taught school, I had time to look and then I would call the doc and say, he, this is what I have, call me something in.  'Cause see, I was teaching and we had different kind of insurance then.  You know that was a little different deal.

	See, I went to the doctor quite a few times with problems saying this is what’s going on.  And every time I get to the doctors office, I was fine.  So after going there quite a few times, my mom got tired of it and she wound up figuring it out herself.  So she did the research.

	That’s when I went and got my yearly, you know, women have to get their yearly, everything done.  I just got mine done two weeks ago.  The test came back not good, but they had to call you on a Friday afternoon about when they are ready to close to let you know so you can have a bad weekend.

	That’s fine.  Then they call me two or three weeks later to the rest of the tests done and it’s like what?  We need to get this taken care of now.  And so I did get the breast taken care of on a Monday but I did have to go in for a biopsy and I told the doctor, can I get ____.  You cant have one of them during that time.  

	Can we do it this week before?  Oh no, and he’s not a busy doctor.  Now he’s got me for next Wednesday at 3:00 p.m.  and we need to get this taken care of because this kidney every day it goes on, it could progress and I don’t, I got four kids and I don’t want to go yet.  And I think this is going to be okay if the breast part is going to be okay.

	I have faith in that because it’s really, really small right now, and I go back in six months, but it’s hard, if it’s something serious like that, they need to get you in, get you biopsies as soon as possible, I think.

	Well, the mental toll that that puts on you anyway.

	Oh, don’t call me on a Friday afternoon.

	I think they have to, 24 hours and that’s what my mine fell on a Friday afternoon and they had to do it, but it wasn’t good for my emotions.  To call and tell me I have two negative tests.

	I don’t think anyone would have taken it well.

	I’m still not happy about it.  Because, we could have did it last week, the biopsy.  Now come this week, I wasn’t going to be able too.  I knew, because I keep a calendar and so he scheduled me next week.  I mean, look at what it did this last week and everyday it goes by it could get worse and worse.  I just want to know.  It’s just taken a toll on my mental health. 

	I just need to know what’s going on.  I guess I’m that kind of person.  I need to know, know, know.  

	You’re not that kind of person, you’re a woman.

	Yeah, otherwise I would have went and got it done, ‘cause I have kids and you just want to take care of yourself and if you catch it early, they say they can do something about it, well, I caught it, why aren't you hurrying up and doing something about it?

	But I don’t know what—

	Okay, let’s see, do you think you receive the preventative care that you need.  So, we’re talking about the things that keep you from getting sick.  So that could be things like blood pressure screenings, the breast cancer screenings, PAP smears, routine dental cleaning, we’ve already talked a lit bit about dental. 
	
	So are you getting eth preventative services you feel like you need?

	Not on the dental.

	Not on the dental, okay.

	Or on the vision either.

	Or vision. 

	A lot of time you know, you can detect diabetics you know, through their vision.

	Right, but at every drug store, I think you can do your blood pressure. 

	Okay. 

	And there is free mammograms and free PAP smears here. 

	Yeah, here upstairs.

	Anything else that anybody’s aware of?

	I think even here they	they do HIV tests and all that too, don’t they?

	Um-hum, even if you don’t have Medicaid, the WIC Office is very good in that department.

	All right, let’s see, so we talked a little bit about getting health insurance in Medicaid.  And so we talked about some of the restrictions on that.  And we talked a little bit about coverage.  Does anyone else have anything else to mention about if your insurance of Medicaid covers the cost of the services you need or have your children been denied health care services because of cost?

	Does anybody have anything to say about that?

	I’ve never been denied.  I’ve been shoved right out the door, but not denied.

	Okay.  

	But some doctors want to give you, just overload you with medicine, like what?  Do you, do I really need this?  I think it’s a money making business.  You know, they give you a script of Ranitidine, you know that’s heartburn medicine.  You cant, you know, who gets heartburn 30 days out of the month, every month?

	Me.

	Are you pregnant?

	Yeah.

	That’s why.  And just medicine, I don’t take.  I don’t take Ranitidine or –

	I think they should do more testing when they give out medications.

	I think they should quite writing scripts.

	Okay, talk about testing.  

	This is something that seems like it used to happen more often than it does now.  They used to do a CBC more often and look at your blood screen more often like back when than they do now.  

	You have to ask.

	Yeah, I have to argue with the doctor about he man, don’t give my kids that antibiotic unless you are doing a CBC.  I want to know if it’s a bacterial infection or a viral infection because they just automatically start giving you whatever.  

	I went to the ER over an insect bite the other day and my foot swelled all the way up into my leg and it was like I had toxemia in one foot.  They didn’t do a blood test or something they just gave me some Bactrim for a bacterial infection that they even know that I have.

	And you know, I just think they should do more testing.  

	Yeah, in order, my doctor, I have to ask him because of the diabetic thing and the cluster of ___ I had to do thee blood work.  And it’s like they don’t want to, ____ every three months.  I still had to have a liver check because Lipitor, it’s supposed to affect your liver.  

	I have not had a liver check yet.  Well, I had one before I started taking Lipitor, but I think I need a liver check.  Check my liver.  Make sure it’s not damaging because I’m on the highest milligram there is of Lipitor.  My cholesterol is almost 800. 

	I had a friend die from something like that.  They were supposed to do a stomach check because he had back surgery done, they forgot, they messed up when they did his back surgery and forgot to put like two disks back right.  Well, he was on all this pain medication and it literally ate his stomach and it ruptured and killed him.  And they did not realize that his stomach acid had ate him from the inside out till like three days later.  

	Oh gosh.

	It was very sad.

	It’s a good thing to have Amy, she always goes with me to the doctor, a health advocate, just to make sure that I’m saying the right things.  I’m not forgetting to tell him something.  You know, because she knows all my problems.

	And sometimes she does forget something and I’ll say, hey.

	Yeah, but I do need to get my blood, and I don’t complain when they want to do blood work.  Hey, do it, do all the blood work you need on me because I want to know what my sugar is.  I want to know what my cholesterol and my triglycerides, I want to know all that.  Because mine are very high, almost 800 cholesterol and I had to ask him to check me for that to begin with.  I wouldn’t know today.

	I would.

	I’d be a walking time bomb.  

	I think what you said about having a health advocate is a very, very wise thing to do.  Because, often times you get a lot of people who are not aware of how to go in and talk to their physician for the first thing and then for the other thing is, if a person is sick they forget what they are really doing or what they are really taking.  They forget a lot of very important things that that doctor may not know.  

	Or you know, that person may have seen another doctor that may have had, and then be taking two different kinds of meds and on and on and on, but having a health advocate is major.  A major—

	That’s why I take her every time I go, I have to because I forget something’s.

	I don’t send my husband with my kids because that—

[Crosstalk]

	I’ve been tested for everything that she has.  So it works both ways.  It helps both ways. 

	I would like more tests.  I hate needles, don’t get me wrong, but like yesterday, I had a ___ appointment and lately I didn’t know if it was something about pregnancy because my first pregnancy was so different, but I’ve been getting really dizzy lately and all of a sudden she just oh, you have low blood sugar.  You need to eat every two hours.  And she just started going on about me having low blood sugar just because I said I was dizzy.  

	She didn’t test.  She didn’t do nothing, she just all of a sudden, oh, you’re getting dizzy because you’ve got low blood sugar.  I’m like, okay.

	I would be real strict with them.

	Well, don’t get me wrong.  I felt better ever since I nibbled on something ever two hours, so that might have been it.  It’s just—

	It makes you uneasy about how sure they are that they’ve got it all figured out about you because every individual is different.  

	Yeah.

	And it would, yeah, I would have my suspicions too.  

	I’ve never seen them so ___ like to take blood these days.  You have to ask, you know, check my sugar.  It’s time.  It’s been three months, check my diabetes and see where I’ve been staying, whatever it’s called where they check every three months and see what it’s been running.  And mine was running at 111 for three months, but that’s still not good because 120 is the highest.

	And 111 on medication, I’m not happy with that either.  But you just have to ask and make sure, you kind of got to research yourself. 

	Right, that’s a great point.

	Okay, what type of services and supplies require out of pocket payment, so what are the things that you have to buy to keep yourself and your family healthy that you have to, basically non reimbursable resources.

	I think they should buy thermometers, like really good ones.  Not the ones that you have to try to hold in their mouth forever or under their arm pit forever.  They should at least give you one of like the ones that do it really fast.  

	The ear ones.  

	The ear ones or the new ones like the forehead really quick or something.

	________.

	They wont?

	No.  But they even use them at ____ clinic and that’s not even what the directions tell you to do.  Like you do it that way and my daughter was sick and it kept giving us different readings and we used like five different thermometers and it gave us different readings every time.  And when we took her we just sat there for hours and hours.  

	And by the time they finally got ready to go_____find another hospital, she went into a seizure and then we finally got in.  

	This is nothing serious, but my daughter is anemic and I have to pay for her vitamins every month.  

	Okay.

	And if she doesn’t take them, her iron does get real low.  That’s something that’s not reimbursed.

	Yeah, exactly.  Anything else to anyone that sticks out to anyone about –

	If you have a child with a special need, that would be something that would be out of pocket. 

	Right.  

	Like if they have an illness, Downs Syndrome, whatever the case maybe. 

	All right, let’s see, we talked a little bit about, there’s another question here about Medicaid about our regular check up screenings and care paid for by a Medicaid program.  How would you answer that?  Would you say that they are?

	Could you repeat that?

	Are your regular checkups screening and care paid for by the Medicaid program?

	I’m not to sure.

	You don’t know.

	I just got my credit report, Transunion, I had Medicaid Medicare and I had some things from it was some kind of health care, it was some visits up here.  So I had to call all these give them my new Medicaid number, well, Medicaid and Medicare numbers, no, not everyone is paid.  

	Yeah.  

	And I don’t understand that.  I have Medicaid and Medicare both.  

	I really don’t know what they pay for and what they don’t because I did get a bill and I forget what it said that they pay for.

	Yeah, mine went actually on my credit report.

	I also [Crosstalk] I’m trying to work on getting that off.  I know, I’m on it right now.

	Sometimes if you go off of Medicaid and then you restart it and you have been to the doctor in the last three months, you have to make sure that you let your case worker know because they wont go back.  Medicaid doesn’t automatically go back.  

	Yeah.

	You would have to tell the caseworker, I went to the doctor here so I need them to cover this, otherwise it’s gonna go to your credit.  

	Yeah, I had to go, I got refunds from pharmacist fees and doctor office visits all my refunds because they went back a year on mine because I should have had it the whole time I was paying out of pocket, when I should have had it the whole time.

	Okay, let’s go on briefly.  We talked a little bit about dental services, so is anyone that is covered f or dental services through your Medicaid.  

	The kids are, but for one cleaning every six months and I don’t know what it covers.  

	____ the x-ray. 

	I just took my little girl to the dentist and it was a week before I went to her ___ screening and they sent me with a form, and they wouldn’t see her again, but I told them the situation because they only see her once every six months, I guess.  And they finally filled out the form for me.  But they did want me to come, bring her in to pay cash that second time, but they finally—

	Did that for you?

	Yeah.

	Yeah, okay, anything else on dental?

	My only problem with the dental thing is, obviously you have to drive to (X location), at least we did, just today, to take my five year old to get his teeth fixed and we had to get a referral from the dentist here, but we had to have a referral from the pediatrician first before he went to go see the dentist and then we went to see the dentist, the regular dentist and then the regular dentist sent him to (X location) in order to get his teeth fixed.  I’m like wow, this is really—

	I don’t know if you’ve tried her, but (X person).

	Yes.

	Oh, you’ve tried her?

	Yes, she’s actually my dentist.  ____.

	_____they have a table there, it’s (X medical clinic).  

	Yeah, actually this is the same outfit here and they said that you had to drive up there, by the time I decided I was already into these people over there.  And so you know you think, what do I do?  Do I remake an appointment or what?  So it’s just these things that I really, you know, I’m just trying to drive this dentist thing home because it has a lot to do with our internal well being from out stomach to everything else because our mouth is really important to keep healthy.

	So it’s like our teeth, our eyes, you know.

	I think more adults have dental problems than children, in general.

	Yes, yes, yeah.

	Okay.  We’re going to talk a little bit about health education and information services.  So, what kind of educational information or resources have you used in your community to keep your family healthy.  You mentioned something about, was it a health fair?

	It was back to school fair.

	Back to school fair and they had information there?

	Yes, they did scoliosis screenings and all different kinds of stuff like that.

	Okay.  

	They did height and weight screenings for head start or for ____.  Stuff that you wouldn’t like they had autism screening.  

	WIC department, they do research on the children.  

	They’re collecting information and—

	Um-hum.

	Okay.

	____ had iron checked.  

	They’re allowed to get goats milk now.  That’s good.  

	Good, good.  

	My kids cow milk, they drink goats milk, so there.  And I think it’s become easier and easier now over the last 18 months where as it was a real battle before and now I’m like, I told you it wasn’t going to hurt that bad, just give me the goats milk.


	Okay, anything else in terms of educational places or information or places that you go for information?

	There was something at the (X location).  I don’t remember what kind of fair it was, but they had—

	What about the one that they have down at the college?  

	But they had something, checking the ears where you go and they have all the different ___ at the different—

	They were asking which arm to raise whenever the beeper goes off?  And I’m like he’s two, he’s not that bright.  I never asked him to do it before so he didn’t know how to do it, so they said that they couldn’t check his hearing.

	Right.  That they couldn’t check it.

	And I didn’t really care much for that because I was thinking that maybe there was something wrong with his hearing as to why he’s not fully talking yet.  ‘Cause everybody else around him is, it’s like he’s saying words, but he’s not so I was thinking maybe he’s not hearing them correctly.  So it’s like—

	Do you repeat it back to him, what he’s saying?

	What?  

	Well, my son had the same problem.  And it ended up, it took year to finally figure it out.  Well, not years, a couple of years.  He had a hole in his ear drum.  And when he would talk it wouldn’t come out right and he would say, he said, there’s a girl in my not class, he left the CL out.  I said, “Brandon, when mommy hears you talk, you’re saying you have a girl in your.”  And he says, “Oh,” see he didn’t understand.  He couldn’t hear that part of it.  So he did have a hole in his ear drum.

	There’s Doctor (X doctor) here in town and he has like a camera thing that he can look in the ears and I think he’s the best ear, nose, and throat doctor in the city.  He has really good technology. 

	But if he does have a whole, they will open it up and patch it.  And then he’ll be fine.  

	Is that covered by Medicaid?

	Yes.  Absolutely.

	Okay, let’s see.  And have, are there any barriers that you’ve encountered to obtain needed health educational services, so anything that you think is maybe keeping you from receiving the education that you’ve needed.  You mentioned, whether or not you have a computer might be, have something to do with whether or not you can access some of that research.  The transportation is also a barrier.

	Anything else?

	There is a bus that will take you.  You got to call them early, ahead of time.  

	You talking about the dollar bus?

	The bus that takes you to (X location, X location or (X location).  But you got to let them know ahead of time. 

	Is that Medicaid transportation?

	Yes.

	Something like that. 

	Yeah, it takes 30 minutes.  We do that.  We had to call from the ER.  It takes them 30 minutes to three hours to get there.  

	For some people that’s the only way.

	Right, that might be their only way to do it.

	I have a friend she has to have a mastectomy in three weeks and now she went earlier, but she had nobody to take her to the doctors.  But she didn’t tell me or I would have took her, but some people don’t have the vehicle.  She’s elderly.  She, you know, finances.  

[Crosstalk]

	But you know, no one, that’s just weird that she didn’t go to the doctor when she first found out.  She said that she had no way to go, on transportation.  

	I do feel sorry for the elderly people who depend on Medicaid to help them with their medicines and they just seem to get the short end of the stick on everything.  The prescription plans, the Medicaid coverage, and the transportation if they are not able to get around.  They just have it a lot harder than the rest of us.

	And they don’t like going to the doctors.  I’ve noticed, they’ve put it off, put it off, put it off.

	Sure.  

	But when she found that, she wanted to go, but she didn’t have the money or ride.  She could have called, I guess she’s not that kind of person to call and ask for a hand out.


	Most elderly people don’t like to give up their independence.  

	I guess so, but it’s kind of sad.

	Okay, do you ever have trouble getting your family to the doctor?  Sometimes.  

	I think this goes back to transportation.

	And the gas money.  When it was $4.00 a gallon.

	And even when you’ve got a car, you better have insurance on your car.

	Right, for which types of health care services do you have to travel the farthest, so you mentioned (X location, X location)?  Is that, are those about the furthest ones that you’ve traveled for?

	There’s a friend of mine, she goes all they way to (X location).

	Okay. 

	I had to go to (X location) and then after I got the MRI done, then he’s going to send me to (X location) to the orthopedics doctor, so I did have to go to (X location) and then, now—

	So a couple of different stops, okay.  All right.  If you could make the perfect health care system in your community, what would it look like?  A little difficult.  

	I didn’t hear that.  We were talking about the pretty baby.  

	If you could make a perfect healthcare system in your community, what would it look like? 

	Man, that’s a pretty big one there.  

	This is way to long to answer.

	I don’t know if there is an answer.

	Right.

	Okay.  Well, we’ve talked—

	Other than what we’ve got.

	Well, a perfect healthcare would do with being, having the means to be able to be covered, but not having the invasiveness of being scared of having that coverage.  A lot of the things that we talked about was being scared of actually getting the coverage and then the lack of the coverage when you do, you know, when it is there.  Just because we need the help doesn’t mean we want to sign our lives away.

	You know, our own privacy, our own rights to make our own decisions about what’s best for us.  So I mean, that’s—

	I would like to see doctors do more testing and spend more time on just that patient instead of trying to worry about hurry up and get this one done so I can go on to the next one. 

	That’s why I used to write down my questions.  I had to hurry up and read them off because by the time he walked in he was already walking back out the door.  And I was like hold on, hold one.  

	You have to say, sit down, we have something to discuss.  That’s what I always say.  It’s very important.  Doctor ____ well,  he’s only got one thing, pain pills, for real.  I mean, that’s my opinion about him.  

	Okay, anything else you would put in your perfect health care system?  

[Crosstalk]

	___ people who, you know, abuse the system, after a while they say, you know one bad apple spoils the whole bunch, so after a while, so many people abusing the system, will make them not want to cover things that, people who are not abusing it.

	Yeah, but what about the clinics and places out there that abuse the system so that they can make cash of it, at the expense of our children?

	Like there was a thing on 20/20 about these children going to this dental clinical that accepted low income families and they were doing like 20, 30 teeth.  Children were throwing up.  They were strapping them down.  It was just ungodly what they were saying about what was happening.  And the parents didn’t know because they weren’t allowed to go back.  I’m sorry, you’re not taking my child into another room and doing something to him that I cant watch you do.  

	Now if they have to have a surgery or something, I can understand not being able to be in the room because it’s got to be sterile and everything, but I can stand right there at the door and look through the window.  You know, I just, I feel that people who abuse the system go both ways.  The people that are getting the assistance can abuse the system, but also, the people providing the services have a means of abusing the system as well.  

	And that just goes over all, Medicaid will stop it whether it’s the provider or the person giving the service. 

	It works out poorly for everyone when there is abuse.  

	Yeah, there is no way to make a perfect health care system because you are always going to have the people who are greedy and you are always going to have the people who just don’t know when to quit.  

	And then you throw the people in there with abuses and all that in there too, that live off the system, the ones that you were talking about that sit at home and live off the government more or less.  

	But you know, and this is a stab to myself, but I’m going to jump out there and do it anyway because my husband and I, we’ve had major discussions about this kind of issue and the fact of the matter is that if we did away with the system, guess what, we’d all have to go to work.  

	And you know what, that hurts really, really bad to have to say that, because I’ve had to think about that real hard, about what that means to me, but the truth of the matter is, I think it would get us back to a point that where we need to be at.  You know, where they’d have care, all of this thing, this monster that we’ve got rolling in that’s such a huge ball, it will get rid of it. 

	I mean, kill it completely and maybe just start all over again.  You know, and I mean, totally do away with it.  It’s gonna hurt, it will hurt.  It will hurt.  You know.  

[Crosstalk]

	There was underprivileged families, you know.  There was a time and a place for welfare, but now it’s like I got a baby.  I got to pay for it.  I know I’m going to have to have food stamps afterwards and then I’m going to get some money, so I mean, I don’t have to work because somebody’s going to take care of my child for me.

	I worked so hard to get food stamps.  They would not give me food stamps worth anything.  And while I’m sitting in this waiting room fighting again to get food stamps, I was listening to this person conversate in the waiting room to get food stamps about how he sells his food stamps.

	50 cents on the dollar.

	I’m like, hello, I’m trying my butt off to get food stamps while you are sitting in here, you are the reason why I don’t get them.  

	It is crazy.  

	It gets very frustrating.

	Well, I want to thank you all for your input today.  This is really valuable information and we will be taking this information and compiling a report.  We will be giving it to the department of health and senior services.  And so, and we’ll be distributing copies of that information and with the ultimate goal of making some changes and improving, you know, the lives of women and children and families in the communities.

	We do have a survey we’d like you to fill out.

	____.

	Oh, I am sorry.  There is just a few more questions that we have to go through.  But these are short and then we’ll do the survey.  ____ was going to interject, but she’s having a little copier issue, so I’m going to try to cover this myself.  She had a couple of questions about newborn screening so you’ve all had babies.  The heel prick they do.  And I guess the first question is, what were you told about that heel prick when you were pregnant, what kind of information were you given or when they did it.

	Isn’t it the PCU prick, is that what the heel is?

	PKU.

	Yeah, I knew it was something about that. 

	It’s about the milk tolerance.

	It’s for six or seven different genetic—

	Yeah, it’s a genetic test to see if there’s a defect.

	I had no idea what it was.  They just said they had to test her for this and they took her away and brought her back.  

	Do they always do it?

	Yes, every baby has to be PKU tested before they can leave the hospital.

[Crosstalk]

	I don’t know if (X) was. 

	Surely she was, if it was the law.

	But it doesn’t sound like you got a lot of information.

	I didn’t.

	No. 

	Like I said, I didn’t even know they did it.

	And what about after the fact, the results?

	We had to stay four days and they didn’t tell me they did the prick, maybe that’s why, because she had milk allergy and they put her on ____ for that and they didn’t tell me why, but I had to stay for four days because she wouldn’t eat.

	After my first child was born, I guess they did that to her and her results came back and her results came back and she has the sickle cell traits so I know they called me at home and told me that she had a trait from the ___ test.

	So you definitely got results and ____.

	I wasn’t told any results so I just figured that he was okay.  

	How old is your oldest one now?

	She’s four now.

	She’s four.

	What other information did they give you?

	As far as that sickle cell trait?  They told me to I always have to remember something, but it slips my mind, but they told me as she gets older, I need to let her know because if she ever wanted to have kids of her own, the baby she had would, if she had the trait, that it would pass on and her actual child would have sickle cell.  So that’s all the information that they gave me, as far as that.  

	But none of my other children have any ______ so I never got a call about it.  But I think the other thing they had all three of my children, every time I have a child, they have jaundice.

	Well, a couple of years ago in 2007, there was a new law passed.  Because when they prick the babies heel, they use a little bit of that blood to do these tests, but there are additional spots that they collect so they want that blood to be sorted so that people can have access to it for research later on.  

	So, I’m curious about how you all feel about storing that blood for up to five years for medical research purposes, are there benefits or drawbacks to it?

	Is it cloning?  Then I’m good.

	And the other thing I should say is that it’s anonymous so all the identifying information—

	So it’s just blood samples that they get a variety so they can see the differences, just like we’re all different kind of thing?

	Exactly.  How do you feel about that?  Is it a good thing?  Do you have concerns about that?

	I feel we need to do medical testing to benefit our future because the viruses are getting worse.  You hear it all the time, there’s a new flu or there’s a new this or the kids are all getting this.  

	Starting in October—

	I feel that if we do the research ahead of time then by the time it comes up, it maybe able to be eliminated before it becomes a problem.

	I don’t really see any problem with it.  I think that they should probably be more informative about that and let the person that, the parent know what the test is for so they’ll know, and then let them know about the storage, because you never know who is going to have a problem with things of that situation.  I just think more information should be provided.  

	About both things.  Both things, what they’re doing, about the screening and the storage.  


	‘Cause, I know working at the hospital, I have so many pregnant women, they go through the doctor, but they don’t know anything about being pregnant, so it’s like there’s no information being provide, so just information period would be helpful.  

	Okay.  Does it matter to you all what types of research are done?  Whether it was a hospital doing it or a university or a pharmaceutical company?

	I don’t care, as long as they are not cloning my child.  I really don’t care.  They need that stuff.  

	__________.  

	You think it’s okay as long as they are doing good with it.  

	Without research we wouldn’t have _____.

	Yes.

	And you were talking about giving more information, this is sort of our last question here.  Or next to last question, how do you feel about—

	How would you like the information provided to you?  

	Have us sign a piece of paper that has all the information we need.   

	Or they can mail letters out and if you have more questions, then a number with that letter that they can call back.  Because there is so many people to address.  

	That’s a good way to get information, but I think at the time of the service and when you are going to that doctor, they need to sit down and tell you what they are doing.  Because, you can give a person a piece of paper but they can forget about it later and then you have that information—

	That’s your own fault.  

	Well, you also have the unfortunate people that have disabilities, they cant read so if you give them a piece of paper, how much good does that really do.

	Have the person read it to you.

	It’s called networking.

	Yes.  

[Crosstalk]

	____ so they kind of explained everything, but they also gave me a paper and I really appreciated it because it helped me at home.  

	You have a little bit if you have questions and something to walk out with so you don’t forget.  

	That’s the reason too.

	That’s good.  So now that we’ve talked about the screening and the blood storage, what do you think you will tell your friends about it?  Do you think you’ll tell them more about it?  Do you feel like there’s more they need to know?

	I ain’t talk about it.

[Crosstalk]

	‘Cause I work and see so many people, I pass it on to you know, anybody that has questions, so yeah, I would pass it on.  That would be something.

	And it goes back to what you were saying earlier about having the opportunity to talk to people.  

	Do you want to try to explain opt out or opt in?

	Well, one way that the department can do to stop like this to tell you all at that time when it’s occurring, like you say, give you a letter saying, this is what we are going to do and if you don’t want your child’s blood to be stored, to be used for research, call us and let us know.  Is that okay with you all?  

	Do you think that that anybody is doing it that way, or do you want to be able to say, yes, I want my blood to be stored for research, or no, I don’t want to which would be a consent.

	Are you guys going to wind up saying what that blood is going to be used to researched?

	There will be no way of knowing that at that time when we ask whether you want to keep your child’s blood for research.  It would just store it for five years, and if any researcher asks for a pool of blood spots to be used and they would have to tell us what it is that they are doing to do, who is it going to benefit, what kind of ___.  It has to go through a whole procedure before we say, okay, you can have it.  

	But one thing is for sure, no names of any child would be given out.  It would just be given, the blood spots would be given out.

	So you are basically saying you need to like save the blood so when the scientists come up with an idea, then they need it. 

	She’s asking should we say yes or no on the paper that they mail out or just leave ___.

	I think you can just give the option.  If you don’t want it, you can call.

	Do you see any barriers to getting it that way?

	Some people don’t have phones.  

	And some people wont mail it back.

	Some people don’t—

	You need to do it right at the hospital.  

	Yeah, I was going to say, I think she’s asking partly, do you think we need to do that right then?  I think to have the option right then to opt in or opt out right then would be the best option.  

	People will forget.

	Right.  Yeah.  

	Yeah.  I don’t have time for everything.  

	So if—

[End of Audio]
	MCH Focus Group	Page 1 of 38
Moderator, Respondentt


www.verbalink.com		Page 1 of 38

